# provisioning_cloud_resources

Hey there Thank you for joining me as we dive into some of the cool functions that Terraform has to offer. Terraform is an IAC platform, which means that it doesn’t help develop applications but it is a it’s a way to deploy infrastructure. It is important to understand that if you are preparing for the Hashicorp: Terraform Associate exam! Today, we will use Terraform with Jenkins and AWS to deploy and bootstrap an EC2 instance in our active VPC, create security groups, and deploy a private S3 bucket. Let’s review some key terms before jumping into our tasks for today!
Key Terms
State file — Terraform uses the terraform.tfstate file to determine the changes to make to your infrastructure so that it will match your configuration file. This file is automatically generated by Terraform and it is used for every configuration regardless of the backend or simplicity of the configuration file. Be aware that this file can hold sensitive information that you may not want public.
Provider — A provider is a plugin that allows Terraform to reach the external API to create, manage, and delete resources.
Jenkins — An open source automation server.
Resource Block — A resource block declares a resource of a certain type and name that will be created or used in your infrastructure. The resource type and name serves as an identifier for the specific resource so it must be unique. Source
Variable Block — Allows you to refer to information that may be used throughout your configuration and easily make changes to one file without having to revise each block and modules that calls the variable.

Always remember to destroy what you created to avoid unnecessary changes. Run "terraform destroy" in the local CLI to ensure that your configuration will be destroyed in AWS.